Products
========

The core of any online store is the product or item you are selling.  Some people may have very simple needs for categorizing and describing their products, while others may have much more complex needs.  Satchmo's product framework tries to strike a balance, enabling easy product configuration but supporting complex products if your needs demand.

Categories
----------

Out of the box, Satchmo supports the traditional hierarchical method for categorizing products.  In other words, you can create category trees like this:

 * Movies

   - Action
   - Western
   - Comedy
   - Black and White

     + Foreign
     + English
     + Silent

 * Books

   - Fiction
   - Non-fiction
    
Some things to keep in mind with Satchmo's implementation:

 * You are not limited to the number of categories or the depth of categories.
 * You are allowed to add products to 1 or more products
 
When entering a category in the admin interface, you will have several fields to fill in.  Below is a description of each field and how it is used:

Name
    The name of this specific category.  It is the text seen by the user to describe this category.  In the example above, Movies, Action, etc. are all names.
    
Slug
    This is a prepopulated field that is used in the url to identify the category.  One aspect that Django encourages is well designed urls.  The slug field is commonly used so that a url "makes sense" when you look at it.  The nice side effect of this is that in some cases, search engines will give higher ranking for sites with cleaner urls.
    
Parent
    If a category is at the top of the tree, then there is no parent.  In our example above, Movies and Books have no parents.  While Action, Comedy, Black and White would all have Movies as a parent.
    
Meta
    When an HTML page is constructed, certain meta information can be added to the page which makes it easier for search engines to classify your pages and your products.  This field is used to enter information about your category that may not be readily seen by just looking at a description.
    
Description
    This is a free form field that describes this category.  You can use this to help guide users in your site.  It's also helpful for search engines.
    
Item
----

An Item is the main focus of your store.  It is the "thing" that a person going to your store would see.  There are many fields you can use to configure your Items.

Category
    See the description above.  This is where you choose one or more categories where a person could find this product.
    
Verbose_name
    This is the full name of an item.  Think of it as the title of the item.
    
Short_name
    This is similar to the slug field in category.  It is a brief description of the item that will show up in the url and uniquely identify this product.
    
Description
    Free form text fields that tell a potential customer about this item and why they may want to purchase it.

Meta
    This meta field is similar to the one described above in the category.  It's basically some additional descriptive language you might want to include in your HTML that does not already show up in the description.
    
Date_added
    The date you added this product to your store.  It could be useful for showing a list of new products.
    
Active
    A flag to identify which items are still valid in the store.  If you decide you don't want to show an item for purchase, I recommend making it Active=False instead of trying to delete it.
    
Featured
    Another flag which can be used to identify special items that you may want to highlight in your site.
    
Option group
    This is a collection of descriptions that identify this item.  See more details below.
    
Base_price
    An item has multiple ways to determine a price.  In the absence of any of the more advanced methods, this is the price that will be shown to the customer.  When using some of the other methods to calculate price, this value sets the baseline which can be increased or decreased depending on your rules.
    
Weight, Length and Height
    These dimensions are for your use in displaying the item's info. It can also be used for shipping calculations.

Create_subs
    This is a special option that allows you to create sub_items.  You can learn more about sub_items below.
    
Related_items
    Certain products may naturally be grouped together.  If you were to purchase a movie, you might want to include links to the book based on the movie or maybe a movie poster.  This would be the place to record those linkages.
    
Also_purchased
    Another field to show relationships between products.  This can be useful if you want to try to increase sales by showing what others have purchased when they bought this product.
    
Taxable
    A flag to tell whether or not tax should be calculated for this product.  More information on taxes can be found ...
    
Tax_class
    Allows you to set the rate at which tax is calculated.
    
Images
++++++

In addition to the information discussed above, you can add as many images as you would like to your item.  One of the nice things about the way Satchmo handles these images is that they are automatically converted to thumbnails and are cached so that the conversion process does not slow down your web site.

Images only have a couple of fields:

Picture
    This is the image of your item that you upload to the web server.  The actual thumbnail size is set in your templates.
    
Caption
    A description of this image.  This field may be used to describe the different angles that images show.
    
Sort
    If you would like control of the order in which the images are displayed, this field can be used.  This field is also special in that it must be filled in!  If you want to delete an image from your item, you must delete the value in the sort field and save the image!

Item Options
------------

As discussed above, an item is the central focus of your store.  For many cases, the items in your store may have several options.  For instance, if you sell t-shirts, a visitor to your store should be able to choose the size of the shirt while looking at the main item.  You may also want them to choose a color, style and/or a bunch of other different options.  The challenge with this much flexibility is building something that is easy for the user to understnad and easy for the store administrator to maintain.  Satchmo has designed option groups, options and sub_items to provide maximum flexibility and maintainability.

Option Groups
+++++++++++++

Continuing on with the shirt example, you will probably end up with some similar options that you want to apply to a large number of products.  For instance, all of your shirts are going to have sizes of Small, Medium and Large.  Instead of adding all three of these to each item, you can create an option group and add that grouping to the item.  Maintenance is much easier this way.

Here are the fields in the option groups:

Name
    A description of the group.  This is displayed in the product page to describe the choices available to the user.  In our shirt instance, "size" would be appropriate.
    
Description
    This field is used for administrative purposes.  Size may make sense when looking at a product but what if you have shirts, shoes and hats?  How do you know which group these sizes apply to?  Use this field to write details about the size.  For instance, you could have an option group with the description "Shirt Sizes", "Hat Sizes" and "Shoe Sizes."
    
Sort Order
    This helps you order the options in the way you would like them displayed.  For instance, you may want colors to show before sizes.

Option Items
++++++++++++

In our example, if an option group is size, then the option items would be "small", "medium" or "large."  The nice thing about these option items is that you can configure these to change the price of your product.  If a large shirt costs more than a small shirt, then you can assign the incremental cost to the "large" option item and the correct price will be shown in the users cart and order.

Name
    This is the displayed value of the option.  You may want to show people "Small" but only store "S" in the database.  
    
Value
    Corresponds with the Name above.  In this example, the value would be "S."
    
Price Change
    If you would like this option to modify the Item's price, enter a positive or negative number here.
    
Sub Item
++++++++

A sub item can be thought of as the actual product you maintain in inventory and sell to a customer.  It is an item with all of the options applied.  In our example case, it might be a Large, White Shirt.

subitem id
    This could be a sku for the product.  It's basically a short id to use to identify your product.
    
items in stock
    The inventory of this specific item.

Weight, Length and Height
    Descriptive information about this item that can be used in shipping calculations or other places in your site.
    
Price
+++++

The final choice you have with your products is if there is additional pricing you would like to apply for bulk or special discounts.  For instance, you may want to charge someone $10 for 1-5 shirts but only $7 if they order 6 or more.  This model allows you to do such configuration.

Price
    Override the price for this sub item if it meets one of the other criteria identified below.
    
Quantity
    The number of items needed to qualify for the price change.
    
Expires
    Date when this offer is no longer valid.  This can be used for various promotions.
